doc_source/index.md, before:

# AWS Cloud9 User Guide

-----
*****Copyright &copy; 2021 Amazon Web Services, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.*****

-----
Amazon's trademarks and trade dress may not be used in 
     connection with any product or service that is not Amazon's, 
     in any manner that is likely to cause confusion among customers, 
     or in any manner that disparages or discredits Amazon. All other 
     trademarks not owned by Amazon are the property of their respective
     owners, who may or may not be affiliated with, connected to, or 
     sponsored by Amazon.

-----
## Contents
+ [What is AWS Cloud9?](welcome.md)
   + [What can I do with AWS Cloud9?](what-can-i-do.md)
   + [Additional information about AWS Cloud9](additional-info.md)
+ [Setting up AWS Cloud9](setting-up.md)
   + [Individual user setup for AWS Cloud9](setup-express.md)
   + [Team setup for AWS Cloud9](setup.md)
   + [Enterprise setup for AWS Cloud9](setup-enterprise.md)
   + [Additional Setup Options for AWS Cloud9 (Team and Enterprise)](setup-teams.md)
   + [Individual student setup for AWS Cloud9](setup-student.md)
   + [Classroom Setup for AWS Cloud9](setup-classroom.md)
+ [Getting started: basic tutorials for AWS Cloud9](tutorials-basic.md)
   + [Tutorial: Hello AWS Cloud9 (console)](tutorial.md)
      + [Step 1: Create an environment](tutorial-create-environment.md)
      + [Step 2: Basic tour of the IDE](tutorial-tour-ide.md)
      + [Step 3: Clean up](tutorial-clean-up.md)
      + [Related information](tutorial-final-info.md)
   + [Tutorial: Hello AWS Cloud9 (CLI)](tutorial-basic-cli.md)
      + [Step 1: Create an environment](tutorial-create-environment-cli-step1.md)
      + [Step 2: Basic Tour of the IDE](tutorial-tour-ide-cli-step2.md)
      + [Step 3: Clean Up](tutorial-clean-up-cli-step3.md)
      + [Related Information](tutorial-final-info-cli.md)
+ [Working with environments in AWS Cloud9](environments.md)
   + [Creating an environment in AWS Cloud9](create-environment.md)
      + [Creating an EC2 Environment](create-environment-main.md)
      + [Creating an SSH Environment](create-environment-ssh.md)
   + [Accessing no-ingress EC2 instances with AWS Systems Manager](ec2-ssm.md)
   + [Opening an environment in AWS Cloud9](open-environment.md)
   + [Calling AWS services from an environment in AWS Cloud9](credentials.md)
   + [Changing environment settings in AWS Cloud9](change-environment.md)
   + [Working with Shared Environments in AWS Cloud9](share-environment.md)
   + [Moving an environment and resizing or encrypting Amazon EBS volumes](move-environment.md)
   + [Deleting an Environment in AWS Cloud9](delete-environment.md)
+ [Working with the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](ide.md)
   + [Tour the AWS Cloud9 IDE](tour-ide.md)
   + [Language Support in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](language-support.md)
   + [Menu Bar Commands Reference for the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](menu-commands.md)
   + [Finding and Replacing Text in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](find-replace-text.md)
   + [Previewing Files in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](file-preview.md)
   + [Previewing running applications in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](app-preview.md)
   + [Working with File Revisions in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](file-revisions.md)
   + [Working with Images Files in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](images.md)
   + [Working with Builders, Runners, and Debuggers in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](build-run-debug.md)
   + [Working with Language Projects in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](projects.md)
   + [Working with Custom Environment Variables in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](env-vars.md)
   + [Working with Project Settings in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](settings-project.md)
   + [Working with User Settings in the AWS Cloud9 IDE](settings-user.md)
   + [Working with AWS Project and User Settings in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](settings-aws.md)
   + [Working with Keybindings in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](settings-keybindings.md)
   + [Working with themes in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](settings-theme.md)
   + [Managing initialization scripts in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](settings-init-script.md)
   + [MacOS Default Keybindings Reference for the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](keybindings-default-apple-osx.md)
   + [MacOS Vim Keybindings Reference for the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](keybindings-vim-apple-osx.md)
   + [MacOS Emacs Keybindings Reference for the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](keybindings-emacs-apple-osx.md)
   + [MacOS Sublime Keybindings Reference for the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](keybindings-sublime-apple-osx.md)
   + [Windows / Linux Default Keybindings Reference for the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](keybindings-default-windows-linux.md)
   + [Windows / Linux Vim Keybindings Reference for the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](keybindings-vim-windows-linux.md)
   + [Windows / Linux Emacs Keybindings Reference for the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](keybindings-emacs-windows-linux.md)
   + [Windows / Linux Sublime Keybindings Reference for the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](keybindings-sublime-windows-linux.md)
   + [Commands Reference for the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](commands.md)
+ [Working with other AWS services](working-with-other-services.md)
   + [Working with Amazon Lightsail instances in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](lightsail-instances.md)
   + [Working with AWS CodeStar Projects in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](codestar-projects.md)
   + [Working with AWS Lambda functions in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](lambda-functions.md)
   + [Working with AWS CodePipeline in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](codepipeline-repos.md)
+ [AWS Toolkit](toolkit-welcome.md)
   + [Navigating and configuring the AWS Toolkit](toolkit-navigation.md)
   + [Working with API Gateway using the AWS Toolkit](api-gateway-toolkit.md)
   + [Working with AWS CloudFormation stacks using AWS Toolkit](cloudformation-toolkit.md)
   + [Working with AWS Lambda functions using the AWS Toolkit](lambda-toolkit.md)
   + [Working with Amazon S3 using AWS Toolkit](s3-toolkit.md)
      + [Working with Amazon S3 buckets](work-with-S3-buckets.md)
      + [Working with Amazon S3 objects](work-with-S3-objects.md)
   + [Working with AWS serverless applications using the AWS Toolkit](serverless-apps-toolkit.md)
      + [Configuration options for debugging serverless applications](sam-debug-config-ref.md)
+ [Tutorials and samples for AWS Cloud9](tutorials.md)
   + [AWS Lambda Tutorial for AWS Cloud9](tutorial-lambda.md)
      + [Step 1: Create and Open the Environment](tutorial-lambda-create-environment.md)
      + [Step 2: Create the Lambda Function and API](tutorial-lambda-create-function.md)
      + [Step 3: Add Code to the Function](tutorial-lambda-add-code.md)
      + [Step 4: Run or Debug the Function Locally](tutorial-lambda-run-or-debug-local-function.md)
      + [Step 5: Run or Debug the API Locally](tutorial-lambda-run-or-debug-local-api.md)
      + [Step 6: Run the Function in Production](tutorial-lambda-run-deployed-function.md)
      + [Step 7: Run the API in Production](tutorial-lambda-run-deployed-api.md)
      + [Step 8: Change the Function and Deploy the Change](tutorial-lambda-change-and-deploy.md)
      + [Step 9: Clean Up](tutorial-lambda-clean-up.md)
      + [Related Information](tutorial-lambda-next-steps.md)
   + [Advanced AWS Lambda Tutorial for AWS Cloud9](tutorial-lambda-advanced.md)
   + [AWS Command Line Interface and aws-shell Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-aws-cli.md)
   + [AWS CodeCommit Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-codecommit.md)
   + [GitHub Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-github.md)
   + [Amazon DynamoDB Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-dynamodb.md)
   + [AWS CDK Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-cdk.md)
   + [LAMP Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-lamp.md)
   + [WordPress Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-wordpress.md)
   + [Java Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-java.md)
   + [C++ Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-cplusplus.md)
   + [Python Tutorial for AWS Cloud9](sample-python.md)
   + [.NET Core sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-dotnetcore.md)
   + [Node.js Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-nodejs.md)
   + [PHP Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-php.md)
   + [Tutorial: Ruby in AWS Cloud9](tutorial-ruby.md)
      + [Step 1: Install Required Tools](tutorial-ruby-install.md)
      + [Step 2: Add Code](tutorial-ruby-code.md)
      + [Step 3: Run the Code](tutorial-ruby-run.md)
      + [Step 4: Install and Configure the AWS SDK for Ruby](tutorial-ruby-sdk.md)
      + [Step 5: Add AWS SDK Code](tutorial-ruby-sdk-code.md)
      + [Step 6: Run the AWS SDK Code](tutorial-ruby-sdk-run.md)
      + [Step 7: Clean Up](tutorial-ruby-clean-up.md)
   + [Go Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-go.md)
   + [TypeScript Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-typescript.md)
   + [Docker sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-docker.md)
+ [Advanced topics for AWS Cloud9](advanced-topics.md)
   + [EC2 Environments versus SSH Environments in AWS Cloud9](ec2-env-versus-ssh-env.md)
   + [VPC settings for AWS Cloud9 Development Environments](vpc-settings.md)
   + [AWS Cloud9 SSH Development Environment host requirements](ssh-settings.md)
   + [Using the AWS Cloud9 Installer](installer.md)
   + [Inbound SSH IP address ranges for AWS Cloud9](ip-ranges.md)
   + [Amazon Machine Image (AMI) contents for an AWS Cloud9 EC2 Development Environment](ami-contents.md)
   + [Using Service-Linked Roles for AWS Cloud9](using-service-linked-roles.md)
   + [Logging AWS Cloud9 API Calls with AWS CloudTrail](cloudtrail.md)
   + [Tags](tags.md)
+ [Security for AWS Cloud9](security.md)
   + [Data protection in AWS Cloud9](data-protection.md)
      + [Data encryption](data-encryption.md)
   + [Identity and access management in AWS Cloud9](security-iam.md)
      + [Audience](audience.md)
      + [Authenticating with identities](auth-identities.md)
      + [Managing access using policies](auth-with-identities.md)
      + [How AWS Cloud9 works with IAM](how-cloud9-with-iam.md)
   + [Logging and monitoring in AWS Cloud9](logging-and-monitoring.md)
   + [Compliance validation for AWS Cloud9](compliance-validation.md)
   + [Resilience in AWS Cloud9](disaster-recovery-resiliency.md)
   + [Infrastructure security in AWS Cloud9](infrastructure-security.md)
   + [Configuration and vulnerability analysis in AWS Cloud9](vulnerability-analysis-and-management.md)
   + [Security best practices for AWS Cloud9](security-best-practices.md)
+ [Troubleshooting AWS Cloud9](troubleshooting.md)
+ [Supported browsers for AWS Cloud9](browsers.md)
+ [Limits for AWS Cloud9](limits.md)
+ [Document history for the AWS Cloud9 User Guide](history.md)

Commit message:

Added documentation for new Git panel feature

doc_source/index.md, after:

# AWS Cloud9 User Guide

-----
*****Copyright &copy; 2021 Amazon Web Services, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.*****

-----
Amazon's trademarks and trade dress may not be used in 
     connection with any product or service that is not Amazon's, 
     in any manner that is likely to cause confusion among customers, 
     or in any manner that disparages or discredits Amazon. All other 
     trademarks not owned by Amazon are the property of their respective
     owners, who may or may not be affiliated with, connected to, or 
     sponsored by Amazon.

-----
## Contents
+ [What is AWS Cloud9?](welcome.md)
   + [What can I do with AWS Cloud9?](what-can-i-do.md)
   + [Additional information about AWS Cloud9](additional-info.md)
+ [Setting up AWS Cloud9](setting-up.md)
   + [Individual user setup for AWS Cloud9](setup-express.md)
   + [Team setup for AWS Cloud9](setup.md)
   + [Enterprise setup for AWS Cloud9](setup-enterprise.md)
   + [Additional Setup Options for AWS Cloud9 (Team and Enterprise)](setup-teams.md)
   + [Individual student setup for AWS Cloud9](setup-student.md)
   + [Classroom Setup for AWS Cloud9](setup-classroom.md)
+ [Getting started: basic tutorials for AWS Cloud9](tutorials-basic.md)
   + [Tutorial: Hello AWS Cloud9 (console)](tutorial.md)
      + [Step 1: Create an environment](tutorial-create-environment.md)
      + [Step 2: Basic tour of the IDE](tutorial-tour-ide.md)
      + [Step 3: Clean up](tutorial-clean-up.md)
      + [Related information](tutorial-final-info.md)
   + [Tutorial: Hello AWS Cloud9 (CLI)](tutorial-basic-cli.md)
      + [Step 1: Create an environment](tutorial-create-environment-cli-step1.md)
      + [Step 2: Basic Tour of the IDE](tutorial-tour-ide-cli-step2.md)
      + [Step 3: Clean Up](tutorial-clean-up-cli-step3.md)
      + [Related Information](tutorial-final-info-cli.md)
+ [Working with environments in AWS Cloud9](environments.md)
   + [Creating an environment in AWS Cloud9](create-environment.md)
      + [Creating an EC2 Environment](create-environment-main.md)
      + [Creating an SSH Environment](create-environment-ssh.md)
   + [Accessing no-ingress EC2 instances with AWS Systems Manager](ec2-ssm.md)
   + [Opening an environment in AWS Cloud9](open-environment.md)
   + [Calling AWS services from an environment in AWS Cloud9](credentials.md)
   + [Changing environment settings in AWS Cloud9](change-environment.md)
   + [Working with shared environment in AWS Cloud9](share-environment.md)
   + [Moving an environment and resizing or encrypting Amazon EBS volumes](move-environment.md)
   + [Deleting an environment in AWS Cloud9](delete-environment.md)
+ [Working with the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](ide.md)
   + [Tour the AWS Cloud9 IDE](tour-ide.md)
   + [Language Support in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](language-support.md)
   + [Menu Bar Commands Reference for the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](menu-commands.md)
   + [Finding and Replacing Text in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](find-replace-text.md)
   + [Previewing Files in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](file-preview.md)
   + [Previewing running applications in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](app-preview.md)
   + [Working with File Revisions in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](file-revisions.md)
   + [Working with Images Files in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](images.md)
   + [Working with Builders, Runners, and Debuggers in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](build-run-debug.md)
   + [Working with Language Projects in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](projects.md)
   + [Working with Custom Environment Variables in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](env-vars.md)
   + [Working with Project Settings in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](settings-project.md)
   + [Working with User Settings in the AWS Cloud9 IDE](settings-user.md)
   + [Working with AWS Project and User Settings in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](settings-aws.md)
   + [Working with Keybindings in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](settings-keybindings.md)
   + [Working with themes in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](settings-theme.md)
   + [Managing initialization scripts in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](settings-init-script.md)
   + [MacOS Default Keybindings Reference for the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](keybindings-default-apple-osx.md)
   + [MacOS Vim Keybindings Reference for the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](keybindings-vim-apple-osx.md)
   + [MacOS Emacs Keybindings Reference for the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](keybindings-emacs-apple-osx.md)
   + [MacOS Sublime Keybindings Reference for the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](keybindings-sublime-apple-osx.md)
   + [Windows / Linux Default Keybindings Reference for the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](keybindings-default-windows-linux.md)
   + [Windows / Linux Vim Keybindings Reference for the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](keybindings-vim-windows-linux.md)
   + [Windows / Linux Emacs Keybindings Reference for the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](keybindings-emacs-windows-linux.md)
   + [Windows / Linux Sublime Keybindings Reference for the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](keybindings-sublime-windows-linux.md)
   + [Commands Reference for the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](commands.md)
+ [Working with other AWS services](working-with-other-services.md)
   + [Working with Amazon Lightsail instances in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](lightsail-instances.md)
   + [Working with AWS CodeStar Projects in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](codestar-projects.md)
   + [Working with AWS Lambda functions in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](lambda-functions.md)
   + [Working with AWS CodePipeline in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)](codepipeline-repos.md)
+ [Visual source control with Git panel](source-control-gitpanel.md)
   + [Managing source control with Git panel](using-gitpanel.md)
   + [Reference: Git commands available in Git panel](gitpanel-reference.md)
+ [AWS Toolkit](toolkit-welcome.md)
   + [Navigating and configuring the AWS Toolkit](toolkit-navigation.md)
   + [Working with API Gateway using the AWS Toolkit](api-gateway-toolkit.md)
   + [Working with AWS CloudFormation stacks using AWS Toolkit](cloudformation-toolkit.md)
   + [Working with AWS Lambda functions using the AWS Toolkit](lambda-toolkit.md)
   + [Working with Amazon S3 using AWS Toolkit](s3-toolkit.md)
      + [Working with Amazon S3 buckets](work-with-S3-buckets.md)
      + [Working with Amazon S3 objects](work-with-S3-objects.md)
   + [Working with AWS serverless applications using the AWS Toolkit](serverless-apps-toolkit.md)
      + [Configuration options for debugging serverless applications](sam-debug-config-ref.md)
+ [Tutorials and samples for AWS Cloud9](tutorials.md)
   + [AWS Lambda Tutorial for AWS Cloud9](tutorial-lambda.md)
      + [Step 1: Create and Open the Environment](tutorial-lambda-create-environment.md)
      + [Step 2: Create the Lambda Function and API](tutorial-lambda-create-function.md)
      + [Step 3: Add Code to the Function](tutorial-lambda-add-code.md)
      + [Step 4: Run or Debug the Function Locally](tutorial-lambda-run-or-debug-local-function.md)
      + [Step 5: Run or Debug the API Locally](tutorial-lambda-run-or-debug-local-api.md)
      + [Step 6: Run the Function in Production](tutorial-lambda-run-deployed-function.md)
      + [Step 7: Run the API in Production](tutorial-lambda-run-deployed-api.md)
      + [Step 8: Change the Function and Deploy the Change](tutorial-lambda-change-and-deploy.md)
      + [Step 9: Clean Up](tutorial-lambda-clean-up.md)
      + [Related Information](tutorial-lambda-next-steps.md)
   + [Advanced AWS Lambda Tutorial for AWS Cloud9](tutorial-lambda-advanced.md)
   + [AWS Command Line Interface and aws-shell Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-aws-cli.md)
   + [AWS CodeCommit sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-codecommit.md)
   + [Amazon DynamoDB Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-dynamodb.md)
   + [AWS CDK Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-cdk.md)
   + [LAMP Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-lamp.md)
   + [WordPress Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-wordpress.md)
   + [Java Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-java.md)
   + [C++ Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-cplusplus.md)
   + [Python Tutorial for AWS Cloud9](sample-python.md)
   + [.NET Core sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-dotnetcore.md)
   + [Node.js Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-nodejs.md)
   + [PHP Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-php.md)
   + [Tutorial: Ruby in AWS Cloud9](tutorial-ruby.md)
      + [Step 1: Install Required Tools](tutorial-ruby-install.md)
      + [Step 2: Add Code](tutorial-ruby-code.md)
      + [Step 3: Run the Code](tutorial-ruby-run.md)
      + [Step 4: Install and Configure the AWS SDK for Ruby](tutorial-ruby-sdk.md)
      + [Step 5: Add AWS SDK Code](tutorial-ruby-sdk-code.md)
      + [Step 6: Run the AWS SDK Code](tutorial-ruby-sdk-run.md)
      + [Step 7: Clean Up](tutorial-ruby-clean-up.md)
   + [Go Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-go.md)
   + [TypeScript Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-typescript.md)
   + [Docker sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-docker.md)
+ [Advanced topics for AWS Cloud9](advanced-topics.md)
   + [EC2 Environments compared with SSH Environments in AWS Cloud9](ec2-env-versus-ssh-env.md)
   + [VPC settings for AWS Cloud9 Development Environments](vpc-settings.md)
   + [AWS Cloud9 SSH Development Environment host requirements](ssh-settings.md)
   + [Using the AWS Cloud9 Installer](installer.md)
   + [Inbound SSH IP address ranges for AWS Cloud9](ip-ranges.md)
   + [Amazon Machine Image (AMI) contents for an AWS Cloud9 EC2 Development Environment](ami-contents.md)
   + [Using Service-Linked Roles for AWS Cloud9](using-service-linked-roles.md)
   + [Logging AWS Cloud9 API Calls with AWS CloudTrail](cloudtrail.md)
   + [Tags](tags.md)
+ [Security for AWS Cloud9](security.md)
   + [Data protection in AWS Cloud9](data-protection.md)
      + [Data encryption](data-encryption.md)
   + [Identity and access management in AWS Cloud9](security-iam.md)
      + [Audience](audience.md)
      + [Authenticating with identities](auth-identities.md)
      + [Managing access using policies](auth-with-identities.md)
      + [How AWS Cloud9 works with IAM](how-cloud9-with-iam.md)
   + [Logging and monitoring in AWS Cloud9](logging-and-monitoring.md)
   + [Compliance validation for AWS Cloud9](compliance-validation.md)
   + [Resilience in AWS Cloud9](disaster-recovery-resiliency.md)
   + [Infrastructure security in AWS Cloud9](infrastructure-security.md)
   + [Configuration and vulnerability analysis in AWS Cloud9](vulnerability-analysis-and-management.md)
   + [Security best practices for AWS Cloud9](security-best-practices.md)
+ [Troubleshooting AWS Cloud9](troubleshooting.md)
+ [Supported browsers for AWS Cloud9](browsers.md)
+ [Limits for AWS Cloud9](limits.md)
+ [Document history for the AWS Cloud9 User Guide](history.md)
