doc_source/installer.md, before:

# Using the AWS Cloud9 Installer<a name="installer"></a>

Before you create an AWS Cloud9 SSH development environment, the cloud compute instance \(for example an Amazon EC2 instance\) or your own server that will connect to the environment must meet the [SSH Host Requirements](ssh-settings.md#ssh-settings-requirements)\. One of these requirements is to download and run the AWS Cloud9 Installer on the instance or server\. The AWS Cloud9 Installer is a Linux shell script that checks whether the instance or server is running on an operating system platform and architecture that AWS Cloud9 supports\. If this check succeeds, the script then attempts to install components and their dependencies that AWS Cloud9 requires to be on the instance or server\.

This topic describes how to download and run this installer script on the target instance or server\.
+  [Download and Run the AWS Cloud9 Installer](#installer-download-run) 
+  [Troubleshooting the AWS Cloud9 Installer](#installer-troubleshooting) 

## Download and Run the AWS Cloud9 Installer<a name="installer-download-run"></a>

1. Make sure the cloud compute instance or your own server that will connect to the environment meets the [SSH Host Requirements](ssh-settings.md#ssh-settings-requirements)\. This includes having specific versions of Python and Node\.js already installed; setting specific permissions on the directory that you want AWS Cloud9 to start from after login; and setting up any associated Amazon Virtual Private Cloud\.

1. While you are connected to the instance or server, run one of the following commands on that instance or server\.

   ```
   curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/c9/install/master/install.sh | bash
   wget -O - https://raw.githubusercontent.com/c9/install/master/install.sh | bash
   ```

1. If a **Done** message displays with no errors, you can [create the SSH environment](create-environment.md#create-environment-ssh)\.

   If an error message displays, see the next section for troubleshooting information\.

## Troubleshooting the AWS Cloud9 Installer<a name="installer-troubleshooting"></a>

This section describes common issues, possible causes, and recommended solutions for troubleshooting AWS Cloud9 Installer errors\.

If your issue is not listed, or if you need additional help, see the [AWS Cloud9 Discussion Forum](https://forums.aws.amazon.com/forum.jspa?forumID=268)\. \(When you enter this forum, AWS might require you to sign in\.\) You can also [contact us](https://aws.amazon.com/contact-us/) directly\.
+  [\-bash: wget: command not found](#installer-wget-not-found) 
+  [Error: please install make to proceed](#installer-install-make) 
+  [Error: please install gcc to proceed](#installer-install-gcc) 
+  [configure: error: curses not found](#installer-install-curses) 

### \-bash: wget: command not found<a name="installer-wget-not-found"></a>

 **Issue:** When you run the installer script, the following message displays: `-bash: wget: command not found`\.

 **Possible cause:** The ** `wget` ** utility is not installed on the instance or server\.

 **Recommended solution:** Run the installer script on the instance or server with the ** `curl` ** utility instead\.

### Error: please install make to proceed<a name="installer-install-make"></a>

 **Issue:** When you run the installer script, the following message displays: `Error: please install make to proceed`\.

 **Possible cause:** The ** `make` ** utility is not installed on the instance or server\.

 **Recommended solution:** Install the ** `make` ** utility, and then try running the installer script on the instance or server again\.

To install the ** `make` ** utility, you could run a command on the instance or server such as the following\.
+ For Amazon Linux, Amazon Linux 2, and Red Hat Enterprise Linux \(RHEL\) running in Amazon EC2: ** `sudo yum -y groupinstall "Development Tools"` ** 
+ For SUSE: ** `sudo zypper install -y make` ** 

### Error: please install gcc to proceed<a name="installer-install-gcc"></a>

 **Issue:** When you run the installer script, the following message displays: `Error: please install gcc to proceed`\.

 **Possible cause:** The ** `gcc` ** utility is not installed on the instance or server\.

 **Recommended solution:** Install the ** `gcc` ** utility, and then try running the installer script on the instance or server again\.

To install the ** `gcc` ** utility, you could run a command on the instance or server such as the following\.
+ For Amazon Linux, Amazon Linux 2, and Red Hat Enterprise Linux \(RHEL\) running in Amazon EC2: ** `sudo yum -y groupinstall "Development Tools"` ** 
+ For SUSE: ** `sudo zypper install -y gcc` ** 
+ For other operating systems, see [Installing GCC](https://gcc.gnu.org/install/)\.

### configure: error: curses not found<a name="installer-install-curses"></a>

 **Issue:** When you run the installer script, the following message displays: `configure: error: curses not found`\.

 **Possible cause:** The ** `ncurses` ** terminal control library is not installed on the instance or server\.

 **Recommended solution:** Install the ** `ncurses` ** terminal control library \(and, on some operating systems, the ** `glibc-static` ** library\), and then try running the installer script on the instance or server again\.

To install the ** `ncurses` ** terminal control library \(and, on some operating systems, the ** `glibc-static` ** library\), you could run commands on the instance or server such as the following\.
+ For Amazon Linux, Amazon Linux 2, and Red Hat Enterprise Linux \(RHEL\) running in Amazon EC2: ** `sudo yum -y install ncurses-devel` ** 
+ For SUSE: ** `sudo zypper install -y ncurses-devel` ** and ** `sudo zypper install -y glibc-static` **

Commit message:

Added support for Ubuntu Server. Added WordPress sample topic. Added support for quick fixes for TypeScript-based projects.

doc_source/installer.md, after:

# Using the AWS Cloud9 Installer<a name="installer"></a>

Before you create an AWS Cloud9 SSH development environment, the cloud compute instance \(for example an Amazon EC2 instance\) or your own server that will connect to the environment must meet the [SSH Host Requirements](ssh-settings.md#ssh-settings-requirements)\. One of these requirements is to download and run the AWS Cloud9 Installer on the instance or server\. The AWS Cloud9 Installer is a Linux shell script that checks whether the instance or server is running on an operating system platform and architecture that AWS Cloud9 supports\. If this check succeeds, the script then attempts to install components and their dependencies that AWS Cloud9 requires to be on the instance or server\.

This topic describes how to download and run this installer script on the target instance or server\.
+  [Download and Run the AWS Cloud9 Installer](#installer-download-run) 
+  [Troubleshooting the AWS Cloud9 Installer](#installer-troubleshooting) 

## Download and Run the AWS Cloud9 Installer<a name="installer-download-run"></a>

1. Make sure the cloud compute instance or your own server that will connect to the environment meets the [SSH Host Requirements](ssh-settings.md#ssh-settings-requirements)\. This includes having specific versions of Python and Node\.js already installed; setting specific permissions on the directory that you want AWS Cloud9 to start from after login; and setting up any associated Amazon Virtual Private Cloud\.

1. While you are connected to the instance or server, run one of the following commands on that instance or server\.

   ```
   curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/c9/install/master/install.sh | bash
   wget -O - https://raw.githubusercontent.com/c9/install/master/install.sh | bash
   ```

1. If a **Done** message displays with no errors, you can [create the SSH environment](create-environment.md#create-environment-ssh)\.

   If an error message displays, see the next section for troubleshooting information\.

## Troubleshooting the AWS Cloud9 Installer<a name="installer-troubleshooting"></a>

This section describes common issues, possible causes, and recommended solutions for troubleshooting AWS Cloud9 Installer errors\.

If your issue is not listed, or if you need additional help, see the [AWS Cloud9 Discussion Forum](https://forums.aws.amazon.com/forum.jspa?forumID=268)\. \(When you enter this forum, AWS might require you to sign in\.\) You can also [contact us](https://aws.amazon.com/contact-us/) directly\.
+  [\-bash: wget: command not found](#installer-wget-not-found) 
+  [Error: please install make to proceed](#installer-install-make) 
+  [Error: please install gcc to proceed](#installer-install-gcc) 
+  [configure: error: curses not found](#installer-install-curses) 

### \-bash: wget: command not found<a name="installer-wget-not-found"></a>

 **Issue:** When you run the installer script, the following message displays: `-bash: wget: command not found`\.

 **Possible cause:** The ** `wget` ** utility is not installed on the instance or server\.

 **Recommended solution:** Run the installer script on the instance or server with the ** `curl` ** utility instead\.

### Error: please install make to proceed<a name="installer-install-make"></a>

 **Issue:** When you run the installer script, the following message displays: `Error: please install make to proceed`\.

 **Possible cause:** The ** `make` ** utility is not installed on the instance or server\.

 **Recommended solution:** Install the ** `make` ** utility, and then try running the installer script on the instance or server again\.

To install the ** `make` ** utility, you could run a command on the instance or server such as the following\.
+ For Amazon Linux, Amazon Linux 2, and Red Hat Enterprise Linux \(RHEL\) running in Amazon EC2: ** `sudo yum -y groupinstall "Development Tools"` ** 
+ For Ubuntu Server running in Amazon EC2: ** `sudo apt install -y build-essential` **
+ For SUSE: ** `sudo zypper install -y make` ** 

### Error: please install gcc to proceed<a name="installer-install-gcc"></a>

 **Issue:** When you run the installer script, the following message displays: `Error: please install gcc to proceed`\.

 **Possible cause:** The ** `gcc` ** utility is not installed on the instance or server\.

 **Recommended solution:** Install the ** `gcc` ** utility, and then try running the installer script on the instance or server again\.

To install the ** `gcc` ** utility, you could run a command on the instance or server such as the following\.
+ For Amazon Linux, Amazon Linux 2, and Red Hat Enterprise Linux \(RHEL\) running in Amazon EC2: ** `sudo yum -y groupinstall "Development Tools"` ** 
+ For Ubuntu Server running in Amazon EC2: ** `sudo apt install -y build-essential` **
+ For SUSE: ** `sudo zypper install -y gcc` ** 
+ For other operating systems, see [Installing GCC](https://gcc.gnu.org/install/)\.

### configure: error: curses not found<a name="installer-install-curses"></a>

 **Issue:** When you run the installer script, the following message displays: `configure: error: curses not found`\.

 **Possible cause:** The ** `ncurses` ** terminal control library is not installed on the instance or server\.

 **Recommended solution:** Install the ** `ncurses` ** terminal control library \(and, on some operating systems, the ** `glibc-static` ** library\), and then try running the installer script on the instance or server again\.

To install the ** `ncurses` ** terminal control library \(and, on some operating systems, the ** `glibc-static` ** library\), you could run commands on the instance or server such as the following\.
+ For Amazon Linux, Amazon Linux 2, and Red Hat Enterprise Linux \(RHEL\) running in Amazon EC2: ** `sudo yum -y install ncurses-devel` ** 
+ For SUSE: ** `sudo zypper install -y ncurses-devel` ** and ** `sudo zypper install -y glibc-static` **
