doc_source/toolkit-navigation.md, before:

# Navigating and configuring the AWS Toolkit<a name="toolkit-navigation"></a>

You can access resources and modify settings through the following AWS Toolkit interface elements:
+ [**AWS Explorer** window](#working-with-aws-explorer): Access AWS services from different AWS Regions\.
+ [**AWS Toolkit** menu](#toolkit-menu): Create and deploy serverless applications, show/hide AWS Regions, access user assistance, and interact with Git repositories\. 
+ [**AWS Configuration** pane](#configuration-options): Modify settings that affect how you can interact with AWS services in AWS Toolkit\.

## Using AWS Explorer to work with services and resources in multiple AWS Regions<a name="working-with-aws-explorer"></a>

The **AWS Explorer** window allows you to select AWS services and work with specific resources associated with that service\. In **AWS Explorer**, you choose a service name node \(API Gateway or Lambda, for example\) and then choose a specific resource associated with that service \(a REST API or a Lambda function, for example\)\. When you choose a specific resource, a menu displays available interaction options such as upload/download, invoke, or copy\.

For example, if your AWS account credentials allow you to access Lambda functions, you can expand the Lambda node listed for an AWS Region and then select a specific Lambda function that can be invoked or uploaded as code to the AWS Cloud9 IDE\. You can also right\-click the node's title to start creating an application that uses the AWS Serverless Application Model\. 

**Note**  
If you can't see the option to view the **AWS Explorer** window in the IDE, make sure that you've enabled the AWS Toolkit\. For more information, see [Enabling AWS Toolkit](toolkit-welcome.md#access-toolkit)\.

The **AWS Explorer** window can also display services hosted in multiple AWS Regions\.

## To access AWS services from a selected AWS Region

1. In the **AWS Explorer** window, choose the **Toolkit** menu, **Show region in the Explorer**\.

1. From the **Select a region to show in the AWS Explorer** list, choose an AWS Region\.

   The selected AWS Region is added to the **AWS Explorer** window\. To access available services and resources, choose the arrow \(>\) in front of the AWS Region's name\. 

**Note**  
You can also hide selected AWS Regions in the **AWS Explorer window** using the following options:  
Right\-click the AWS Region and choose **Hide region from the Explorer**\.
In the AWS Toolkit menu , choose **Hide region from the Explorer** and select a Region to hide\.

## Accessing and using the AWS Toolkit menu<a name="toolkit-menu"></a>

The **AWS Toolkit** provides access for options to create and deploy [serverless applications](serverless-apps-toolkit.md)\. The menu also allows you to manage connections, update the **AWS: Explorer** window, access documentation, and interact with GitHub repositories\.

To access the **Toolkit** menu, choose the scroll icon opposite the **AWS: Explorer** title in the **AWS Explorer** window\.

![\[Labelled screenshot showing the location of the Toolkit menu for the AWS Toolkit\]](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloud9/latest/user-guide/)

The table below describes the options available on the **Toolkit** menu\.


****Toolkit** menu options**  

| Menu option | Description | 
| --- | --- | 
|  **Refresh AWS Explorer**  |  Choose this option to refresh **AWS Explorer** to show any AWS services that have been modified since you last opened the window\.  | 
|  **Connect to AWS**  |  Connects AWS Toolkit to an AWS account\.   | 
|  **Show region in the Explorer**  |  Displays an AWS Region in the **AWS Explorer** window\. For more information, see [Using AWS Explorer to work with services and resources in multiple AWS Regions](#working-with-aws-explorer)\.  | 
|  **Hide region from the Explorer**  |  Hides an AWS Region in the **AWS Explorer** window\. For more information, see [Using AWS Explorer to work with services and resources in multiple AWS Regions](#working-with-aws-explorer)  | 
|  **Create new SAM Application**  |  Generates a set of code files for a new AWS serverless application\. For more information on creating and deploying SAM applications, see [Working with AWS serverless applications using the AWS Toolkit](serverless-apps-toolkit.md)\.  | 
|  **Deploy SAM Application**  |  Deploys a serverless application to AWS\. For more information on creating and deploying SAM applications, see [Working with AWS serverless applications using the AWS Toolkit](serverless-apps-toolkit.md)\.  | 
|  **View Quick Start**  |  Opens the Quick Start guide\.  | 
|  **View Toolkit Documentation**  |  Opens the user guide for AWS Toolkit\.  | 
|  **View Source on GitHub**  |  Opens the GitHub repository for the AWS Toolkit\.  | 
|  **Create a New Issue on GitHub**  |  Opens the AWS Toolkit's New Issue page on Github  | 
|  **Submit Quick Feedback**  |  Submit private, one\-way feedback to the AWS Toolkit development team\. For issues that require conversations or bug fixes, please submit an issue in Github by selecting the **Create a New Issue on Github** menu option\.  | 
|  **About AWS Toolkit**  |  Displays information about the version of the Toolkit running and the Amazon operating system it's configured for\.  | 

## Modifying AWS Toolkit settings using the AWS Configuration pane<a name="configuration-options"></a>

To access the **AWS Configuration** pane, choose **AWS Cloud9**, **Preferences**\. Next, in the **Preferences** window, under **Project Settings**, choose **AWS Configuration\.** 

![\[Labelled screenshot showing the location of the AWS Configuration menu for the AWS Toolkit\]](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloud9/latest/user-guide/)

The table below describes the options available on the **AWS Configuration** pane\.


****  

| Menu option | Description | 
| --- | --- | 
|  **AWS: Profile**  |  Sets the name of the credentials profile to obtain credentials from\.  | 
|  **AWS: On Default Region Missing**  |  Indicates the action to take if the default AWS Region for the selected credentials profile is not available in the **AWS Explorer** window\. Users can select from three options: [\[See the AWS documentation website for more details\]](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloud9/latest/user-guide/toolkit-navigation.html)  | 
|  **AWS > S3: Max Items Per Page**  |  Specifies how many Amazon S3 objects or folders are displayed at one time in the \. When the maximum number is displayed, you can choose **Load More** to display the next batch\.  The range of accepted values for this field is between 3 and 1000\. This setting applies only to the number of objects or folders displayed at one time\. All the buckets you've created are displayed at once\. \(By default, you can create up to 100 buckets in each of your AWS accounts\.\)   | 
|  **AWS > Samcli: Location**  |  Indicates the location of the SAM CLI that's used to create, build, package, and deploy [serverless applications](serverless-apps-toolkit.md)\.  | 
|  **AWS > Samcli > Debug > Attach> Retry: Maximum:**  |  Specifies how many times the Toolkit tries to attach the SAM CLI debugger before giving up\. The default limit is 30 tries\. \(When you locally invoke a Lambda function in debug mode within the AWS SAMCLI, you can then attach a debugger to it\.\)  | 
|  **AWS > Samcli > Debug > Attach> Timeout: Millis:**  |  Specifies how long the Toolkit tries to attach the SAM CLI debugger before giving up\. The default timeout is 30,0000 milliseconds \(30 seconds\)\. \(When you locally invoke a Lambda function in debug mode within the AWS SAMCLI, you can then attach a debugger to it\.\)  | 
|  **AWS : Log Level:**  |  Sets the category of workflow events that are logged\. Available level are: [\[See the AWS documentation website for more details\]](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloud9/latest/user-guide/toolkit-navigation.html)  | 
|  **AWS : Telemetry**  |  Enables or disables the sending of usage data to AWS\. Enabled by default  |

Commit message:

Updates for code samples, credential information for AWS Toolkit, and new Troubleshooting entries

doc_source/toolkit-navigation.md, after:

# Navigating and configuring the AWS Toolkit<a name="toolkit-navigation"></a>

You can access resources and modify settings through the following AWS Toolkit interface elements:
+ [**AWS Explorer** window](#working-with-aws-explorer): Access AWS services from different AWS Regions\.
+ [**AWS Toolkit** menu](#toolkit-menu): Create and deploy serverless applications, show/hide AWS Regions, access user assistance, and interact with Git repositories\. 
+ [**AWS Configuration** pane](#configuration-options): Modify settings that affect how you can interact with AWS services in AWS Toolkit\.

## Using AWS Explorer to work with services and resources in multiple AWS Regions<a name="working-with-aws-explorer"></a>

The **AWS Explorer** window allows you to select AWS services and work with specific resources associated with that service\. In **AWS Explorer**, you choose a service name node \(API Gateway or Lambda, for example\) and then choose a specific resource associated with that service \(a REST API or a Lambda function, for example\)\. When you choose a specific resource, a menu displays available interaction options such as upload/download, invoke, or copy\.

For example, if your AWS account credentials allow you to access Lambda functions, you can expand the Lambda node listed for an AWS Region and then select a specific Lambda function that can be invoked or uploaded as code to the AWS Cloud9 IDE\. You can also right\-click the node's title to start creating an application that uses the AWS Serverless Application Model\. 

**Note**  
If you can't see the option to view the **AWS Explorer** window in the IDE, make sure that you've enabled the AWS Toolkit\. For more information, see [Enabling AWS Toolkit](toolkit-welcome.md#access-toolkit)\.

The **AWS Explorer** window can also display services hosted in multiple AWS Regions\.

## To access AWS services from a selected AWS Region

1. In the **AWS Explorer** window, choose the **Toolkit** menu, **Show region in the Explorer**\.

1. From the **Select a region to show in the AWS Explorer** list, choose an AWS Region\.

   The selected AWS Region is added to the **AWS Explorer** window\. To access available services and resources, choose the arrow \(>\) in front of the AWS Region's name\. 

**Note**  
You can also hide selected AWS Regions in the **AWS Explorer window** using the following options:  
Right\-click the AWS Region and choose **Hide region from the Explorer**\.
In the AWS Toolkit menu , choose **Hide region from the Explorer** and select a Region to hide\.

## Accessing and using the AWS Toolkit menu<a name="toolkit-menu"></a>

The **AWS Toolkit** provides access for options to create and deploy [serverless applications](serverless-apps-toolkit.md)\. The menu also allows you to manage connections, update the **AWS: Explorer** window, access documentation, and interact with GitHub repositories\.

To access the **Toolkit** menu, choose the scroll icon opposite the **AWS: Explorer** title in the **AWS Explorer** window\.

![\[Labelled screenshot showing the location of the Toolkit menu for the AWS Toolkit\]](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloud9/latest/user-guide/)

The table below describes the options available on the **Toolkit** menu\.


****Toolkit** menu options**  

| Menu option | Description | 
| --- | --- | 
|  **Refresh AWS Explorer**  |  Choose this option to refresh **AWS Explorer** to show any AWS services that have been modified since you last opened the window\.  | 
|  **Connect to AWS**  |  Connects AWS Toolkit to an AWS account using credtials stored in a *profile*\. For more information, see [Managing access credentials for AWS Toolkit](toolkit-welcome.md#credentials-for-toolkit)\.  | 
|  **Show region in the Explorer**  |  Displays an AWS Region in the **AWS Explorer** window\. For more information, see [Using AWS Explorer to work with services and resources in multiple AWS Regions](#working-with-aws-explorer)\.  | 
|  **Hide region from the Explorer**  |  Hides an AWS Region in the **AWS Explorer** window\. For more information, see [Using AWS Explorer to work with services and resources in multiple AWS Regions](#working-with-aws-explorer)  | 
|  **Create new SAM Application**  |  Generates a set of code files for a new AWS serverless application\. For more information on creating and deploying SAM applications, see [Working with AWS serverless applications using the AWS Toolkit](serverless-apps-toolkit.md)\.  | 
|  **Deploy SAM Application**  |  Deploys a serverless application to AWS\. For more information on creating and deploying SAM applications, see [Working with AWS serverless applications using the AWS Toolkit](serverless-apps-toolkit.md)\.  | 
|  **View Quick Start**  |  Opens the Quick Start guide\.  | 
|  **View Toolkit Documentation**  |  Opens the user guide for AWS Toolkit\.  | 
|  **View Source on GitHub**  |  Opens the GitHub repository for the AWS Toolkit\.  | 
|  **Create a New Issue on GitHub**  |  Opens the AWS Toolkit's New Issue page on Github  | 
|  **Submit Quick Feedback**  |  Submit private, one\-way feedback to the AWS Toolkit development team\. For issues that require conversations or bug fixes, please submit an issue in Github by selecting the **Create a New Issue on Github** menu option\.  | 
|  **About AWS Toolkit**  |  Displays information about the version of the Toolkit running and the Amazon operating system it's configured for\.  | 

## Modifying AWS Toolkit settings using the AWS Configuration pane<a name="configuration-options"></a>

To access the **AWS Configuration** pane, choose **AWS Cloud9**, **Preferences**\. Next, in the **Preferences** window, under **Project Settings**, choose **AWS Configuration\.** 

![\[Labelled screenshot showing the location of the AWS Configuration menu for the AWS Toolkit\]](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloud9/latest/user-guide/)

The table below describes the options available on the **AWS Configuration** pane\.


****  

| Menu option | Description | 
| --- | --- | 
|  **AWS: Profile**  |  Sets the name of the credentials profile to obtain credentials from\.  | 
|  **AWS: On Default Region Missing**  |  Indicates the action to take if the default AWS Region for the selected credentials profile is not available in the **AWS Explorer** window\. Users can select from three options: [\[See the AWS documentation website for more details\]](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloud9/latest/user-guide/toolkit-navigation.html)  | 
|  **AWS > S3: Max Items Per Page**  |  Specifies how many Amazon S3 objects or folders are displayed at one time in the \. When the maximum number is displayed, you can choose **Load More** to display the next batch\.  The range of accepted values for this field is between 3 and 1000\. This setting applies only to the number of objects or folders displayed at one time\. All the buckets you've created are displayed at once\. \(By default, you can create up to 100 buckets in each of your AWS accounts\.\)   | 
|  **AWS > Samcli: Location**  |  Indicates the location of the SAM CLI that's used to create, build, package, and deploy [serverless applications](serverless-apps-toolkit.md)\.  | 
|  **AWS > Samcli > Debug > Attach> Retry: Maximum:**  |  Specifies how many times the Toolkit tries to attach the SAM CLI debugger before giving up\. The default limit is 30 tries\. \(When you locally invoke a Lambda function in debug mode within the AWS SAMCLI, you can then attach a debugger to it\.\)  | 
|  **AWS > Samcli > Debug > Attach> Timeout: Millis:**  |  Specifies how long the Toolkit tries to attach the SAM CLI debugger before giving up\. The default timeout is 30,0000 milliseconds \(30 seconds\)\. \(When you locally invoke a Lambda function in debug mode within the AWS SAMCLI, you can then attach a debugger to it\.\)  | 
|  **AWS : Log Level:**  |  Sets the category of workflow events that are logged\. Available level are: [\[See the AWS documentation website for more details\]](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloud9/latest/user-guide/toolkit-navigation.html)  | 
|  **AWS : Telemetry**  |  Enables or disables the sending of usage data to AWS\. Enabled by default  |
