doc_source/what-can-i-do.md, before:

# What can I do with AWS Cloud9?<a name="what-can-i-do"></a>

Explore the following resources to learn about using AWS Cloud9 for some common scenarios\.


**Key scenarios**  

|  **Scenario**  |  **Resources**  | 
| --- | --- | 
|  Create, run, and debug code in AWS Lambda functions, APIs in Amazon API Gateway, and serverless applications\.  |   [AWS Lambda Tutorial for AWS Cloud9](tutorial-lambda.md), [Advanced AWS Lambda Tutorial for AWS Cloud9](tutorial-lambda-advanced.md), and [Working with AWS Lambda functions in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment \(IDE\)](lambda-functions.md)   | 
|  Work with Amazon Lightsail instances preconfigured with popular applications and frameworks such as WordPress, LAMP \(Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP\), Node\.js, Nginx, Drupal, and Joomla, and Linux distributions such as Amazon Linux, Ubuntu, Debian, FreeBSD, and openSUSE\.  |   [Working with Amazon Lightsail instances in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment \(IDE\)](lightsail-instances.md)   | 
|  Work with code in AWS software development projects and toolchains in AWS CodeStar\.  |   [Working with AWS CodeStar Projects in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment \(IDE\)](codestar-projects.md)   | 
|  Work with code in continuous delivery solutions in AWS CodePipeline\.  |   [Working with AWS CodePipeline in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment \(IDE\)](codepipeline-repos.md)   | 
|  Automate AWS services by using the AWS CLI and the aws\-shell\.  |   [AWS Command Line Interface and aws\-shell Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-aws-cli.md)   | 
|  Work with source code repositories in AWS CodeCommit\.  |   [AWS CodeCommit Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-codecommit.md)   | 
|  Work with source code repositories in GitHub\.  |   [GitHub Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-github.md)   | 
|  Work with NoSQL databases in Amazon DynamoDB\.  |   [Amazon DynamoDB Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-dynamodb.md)   | 
|  Work with LAMP \(Linux, Apache HTTP Server, MySQL, and PHP\) stacks\.  |   [LAMP Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-lamp.md)   | 
|  Work with WordPress websites\.  |   [WordPress Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-wordpress.md)   | 
|  Work with code for Java and the AWS SDK for Java\.  |   [Java Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-java.md)   | 
|  Work with code for C\+\+ and the AWS SDK for C\+\+\.  |   [C\+\+ Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-cplusplus.md)   | 
|  Work with code for Python and the AWS SDK for Python \(Boto\)\.  |   [Python Tutorial for AWS Cloud9](sample-python.md)   | 
|  Work with code for \.NET Core and the AWS SDK for \.NET\.  |   [\.NET Core sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-dotnetcore.md)   | 
|  Work with code for Node\.js and the AWS SDK for JavaScript\.  |   [Node\.js Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-nodejs.md)   | 
|  Work with code for PHP and the AWS SDK for PHP\.  |   [PHP Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-php.md)   | 
|  Work with code for Ruby and the AWS SDK for Ruby\.  |   [Tutorial: Ruby in AWS Cloud9](tutorial-ruby.md)   | 
|  Work with code for Go and the AWS SDK for Go\.  |   [Go Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-go.md)   | 
|  Work with code for TypeScript and the AWS SDK for JavaScript\.  |   [TypeScript Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-typescript.md)   | 
|  Work with code for the AWS Cloud Development Kit \(AWS CDK\)\.  |   [AWS CDK Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-cdk.md)   | 
|  Work with code in a running Docker container\.  |   [Docker sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-docker.md)   | 
|  Invite others to use an environment with you, in real time and with text chat support\.  |   [Working with Shared Environments in AWS Cloud9](share-environment.md)   | 
|  Work with code for intelligent robotics applications in AWS RoboMaker\.  |   [Developing with AWS Cloud9](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/robomaker/latest/dg/cloud9.html) in the *AWS RoboMaker Developer Guide*   |

Commit message:

Added documentation for new Git panel feature

doc_source/what-can-i-do.md, after:

# What can I do with AWS Cloud9?<a name="what-can-i-do"></a>

Explore the following resources to learn about using AWS Cloud9 for some common scenarios\.


**Key scenarios**  

|  **Scenario**  |  **Resources**  | 
| --- | --- | 
|  Create, run, and debug code in AWS Lambda functions, APIs in Amazon API Gateway, and serverless applications\.  |   [AWS Lambda Tutorial for AWS Cloud9](tutorial-lambda.md), [Advanced AWS Lambda Tutorial for AWS Cloud9](tutorial-lambda-advanced.md), and [Working with AWS Lambda functions in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment \(IDE\)](lambda-functions.md)   | 
|  Work with Amazon Lightsail instances preconfigured with popular applications and frameworks such as WordPress, LAMP \(Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP\), Node\.js, Nginx, Drupal, and Joomla, and Linux distributions such as Amazon Linux, Ubuntu, Debian, FreeBSD, and openSUSE\.  |   [Working with Amazon Lightsail instances in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment \(IDE\)](lightsail-instances.md)   | 
|  Work with code in AWS software development projects and toolchains in AWS CodeStar\.  |   [Working with AWS CodeStar Projects in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment \(IDE\)](codestar-projects.md)   | 
|  Work with code in continuous delivery solutions in AWS CodePipeline\.  |   [Working with AWS CodePipeline in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment \(IDE\)](codepipeline-repos.md)   | 
|  Automate AWS services by using the AWS CLI and the aws\-shell\.  |   [AWS Command Line Interface and aws\-shell Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-aws-cli.md)   | 
|  Work with source code repositories in AWS CodeCommit\.  |   [AWS CodeCommit sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-codecommit.md)   | 
|  Work with source code repositories in GitHub using the Git panel interface\.  |   [Visual source control with Git panel](source-control-gitpanel.md)   | 
|  Work with NoSQL databases in Amazon DynamoDB\.  |   [Amazon DynamoDB Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-dynamodb.md)   | 
|  Work with LAMP \(Linux, Apache HTTP Server, MySQL, and PHP\) stacks\.  |   [LAMP Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-lamp.md)   | 
|  Work with WordPress websites\.  |   [WordPress Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-wordpress.md)   | 
|  Work with code for Java and the AWS SDK for Java\.  |   [Java Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-java.md)   | 
|  Work with code for C\+\+ and the AWS SDK for C\+\+\.  |   [C\+\+ Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-cplusplus.md)   | 
|  Work with code for Python and the AWS SDK for Python \(Boto\)\.  |   [Python Tutorial for AWS Cloud9](sample-python.md)   | 
|  Work with code for \.NET Core and the AWS SDK for \.NET\.  |   [\.NET Core sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-dotnetcore.md)   | 
|  Work with code for Node\.js and the AWS SDK for JavaScript\.  |   [Node\.js Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-nodejs.md)   | 
|  Work with code for PHP and the AWS SDK for PHP\.  |   [PHP Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-php.md)   | 
|  Work with code for Ruby and the AWS SDK for Ruby\.  |   [Tutorial: Ruby in AWS Cloud9](tutorial-ruby.md)   | 
|  Work with code for Go and the AWS SDK for Go\.  |   [Go Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-go.md)   | 
|  Work with code for TypeScript and the AWS SDK for JavaScript\.  |   [TypeScript Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-typescript.md)   | 
|  Work with code for the AWS Cloud Development Kit \(AWS CDK\)\.  |   [AWS CDK Sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-cdk.md)   | 
|  Work with code in a running Docker container\.  |   [Docker sample for AWS Cloud9](sample-docker.md)   | 
|  Invite others to use an environment with you, in real time and with text chat support\.  |   [Working with shared environment in AWS Cloud9](share-environment.md)   | 
|  Work with code for intelligent robotics applications in AWS RoboMaker\.  |   [Developing with AWS Cloud9](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/robomaker/latest/dg/cloud9.html) in the *AWS RoboMaker Developer Guide*   |
